This is a tutorial on the interactive visualized convolution of two signals.
It lets the user visualize and calculate how the convolution of two functions is
determined.
This is often referred to as graphical convolution.
The tool consists of three graphs.
Top left graph two functions.
h(t) dash red line and f(t) solid blue line
are plotted in the top left graph.
As you choose new functions,
these graphs will be updated top right graph.
The top right graph shows three separate functions and has an independent variable
(i.e., axis of lambda).
This is important in this graph.
Lambda varies and t is constant shown our f lambda solid blue
line note,
this looks just like f(t).h(t minus lambda) red
this is reversed horizontally relative to the original because of the minus sign
on the independent variable (i.e., minus lambda) and shifted
horizontally by the an amount equal to the constant t the product f
lambda O TT minus lambda pink
line and filled in with pink note.
This is a function of lambda with t being a constant.
This function is shaded in pink as a reminder that the convolution is the integral of this
function for this particular value of tie the shaded area above
zero minus the shaded area below zero.
The value of t you can change the value of t by clicking and dragging within the
middle or bottom graph.
The variable lambda does not appear in the final convolution.
It is merely a dummy variable used in the convolution integral.
See below bottom right graph.
The bottom right graph shows y(t),
the convolution of h(t) and f(t) as well as the value of t
specified in the top right graph.
You can change the value of t by clicking and dragging within the top right or bottom right graph.
The constant value of t from the middle graph is indicated by a black dot on the top right and
bottom right two graphs you can change the value of t by entering a value into the box
below or you can click and move the mouse horizontally in either of the two lower graphs.
The value of the convolution at start time is y(0) = 0.
This value is calculated numerically and may differ slightly from an exact value.
You can select two functions h(t) and f(t) to be convolved from
drop down menus.
There are very interesting and useful functions for both of h(t) and f(t).
We recommend you to select and test those.
You can also choose to show the complete solution or just the solution until a specified
time.
You can also save each graph as a file.
In various formats.
PNG JPG PDF and SVG or directly print just by click and
chart context menu.
Three parallel lines on top right of each plot.
This is useful when learning because you can try to figure out what the convolution looks like to test your
understanding.
Thank you.